QUICKSTART.md, before:

# Quick Start Guide

Get up and running with the Vendor API Specification Generator in 5 minutes.

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/jsoprych/crypto-exchange-api-catalog.git
cd crypto-exchange-api-catalog

# Create and activate virtual environment (recommended)
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Initialize database
python3 main.py init
```

## Basic Usage

### 1. Discover Coinbase API

```bash
python3 main.py discover --vendor coinbase
```

**Expected output:**
```
Discovering Coinbase Exchange API...

✓ Discovery complete:
  - Products: 776
  - REST endpoints: 10
  - WebSocket channels: 5
  - Duration: 19.93s
  - Run ID: 1
```

### 2. Export to JSON (Python format)

```bash
python3 main.py export --vendor coinbase --format snake_case
```

**Output file:** `output/coinbase/coinbase_api_spec.json`

### 3. Export to JSON (Go format)

```bash
python3 main.py export --vendor coinbase --format camelCase --output coinbase_go.json
```

**Output file:** `coinbase_go.json`

## Query Examples

### Find all BTC trading pairs

```bash
python3 main.py query "SELECT symbol, base_currency, quote_currency FROM products WHERE base_currency = 'BTC'"
```

### Check discovery run history

```bash
python3 main.py query "SELECT * FROM discovery_runs"
```

### Find products with ticker feeds

```bash
python3 main.py query "
SELECT p.symbol, prf.feed_type 
FROM products p 
JOIN product_rest_feeds prf ON p.product_id = prf.product_id 
WHERE prf.feed_type = 'ticker' 
LIMIT 10
"
```

### Using pre-built SQL queries

```bash
# Vendor analysis
sqlite3 data/specifications.db < sql/queries/01_vendor_analysis.sql

# Endpoint discovery
sqlite3 data/specifications.db < sql/queries/02_endpoint_discovery.sql

# Product catalog
sqlite3 data/specifications.db < sql/queries/04_product_catalog.sql
```

## Understanding the Output

### JSON Structure

```json
{
  "spec_metadata": {
    "vendor": "coinbase",
    "base_url": "https://api.exchange.coinbase.com",
    "websocket_url": "wss://ws-feed.exchange.coinbase.com"
  },
  "rest_api": {
    "endpoints": [...]
  },
  "websocket_api": {
    "channels": [...]
  },
  "products": [
    {
      "symbol": "BTC-USD",
      "base_currency": "BTC",
      "quote_currency": "USD",
      "available_rest_feeds": [
        {
          "type": "ticker",
          "endpoint": "/products/{product_id}/ticker"
        },
        {
          "type": "candles",
          "endpoint": "/products/{product_id}/candles",
          "intervals": [60, 300, 900, 3600, 21600, 86400]
        }
      ],
      "available_ws_channels": ["ticker", "level2", "matches"]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Database Tables

- **vendors** - Exchange registry
- **discovery_runs** - Audit trail
- **rest_endpoints** - REST API endpoints
- **websocket_channels** - WebSocket channels
- **products** - Trading pairs
- **product_rest_feeds** - Product → REST feed mappings
- **product_ws_channels** - Product → WebSocket channel mappings

## Common Tasks

### Re-run discovery to detect changes

```bash
# Run discovery again
python3 main.py discover --vendor coinbase

# Check for changes
python3 main.py query "
SELECT change_type, detected_at 
FROM api_changes 
ORDER BY detected_at DESC 
LIMIT 10
"
```

### Export specific products

Since all products are in the database, you can query and export a subset:

```bash
# Query specific products
python3 main.py query "
SELECT symbol, base_currency, quote_currency 
FROM products 
WHERE base_currency IN ('BTC', 'ETH') 
AND quote_currency = 'USD'
"
```

### Check system health

```bash
# View latest discovery runs
python3 main.py query "SELECT * FROM v_latest_discovery_runs"

# Check product feed availability
python3 main.py query "SELECT * FROM v_product_feed_availability WHERE symbol = 'BTC-USD'"
```

## Normalizing Exchange Data (Phase 2)

The canonical field mapping system enables consistent data processing across exchanges:

### Initialize Canonical Data
```bash
python3 src/scripts/init_canonical_data.py
```

### Test Normalization
```bash
# Test all exchanges
python3 src/scripts/test_all_exchanges.py

# Test specific exchange
python3 src/scripts/test_normalization.py --vendor coinbase --data-type ticker
```

### Example: Normalize Coinbase Ticker (WebSocket)
```python
from src.normalization.normalization_engine import NormalizationEngine

engine = NormalizationEngine()
sample_data = {
    "type": "ticker",
    "sequence": 5928281082,
    "product_id": "BTC-USD",
    "price": "43210.50",
    "best_bid": "43210.00",
    "best_ask": "43211.00",
    "volume_24h": "1234.5678"
}

normalized = engine.normalize(
    vendor_name="coinbase",
    data_type="ticker",
    input_data=sample_data
)

print(f"Bid: {normalized['bid_price']}")  # 43210.0
print(f"Ask: {normalized['ask_price']}")  # 43211.0
print(f"Exchange: {normalized['exchange']}")  # coinbase (auto-added)
print(f"Timestamp: {normalized['timestamp']}")  # Derived if missing
```

### Example: Normalize Binance Ticker (REST Endpoint)
```python
from src.normalization.normalization_engine import NormalizationEngine

engine = NormalizationEngine()
# Sample REST API response from /api/v3/ticker/24hr
rest_response = {
    "symbol": "BTCUSDT",
    "bidPrice": "43210.00",
    "bidQty": "1.25000000",
    "askPrice": "43211.00",
    "askQty": "0.75000000",
    "lastPrice": "43210.50",
    "volume": "53245678.9",
    "highPrice": "43500.00",
    "lowPrice": "42000.00",
    "openPrice": "42500.00",
    "closeTime": 1706697000123
}

normalized = engine.normalize(
    vendor_name="binance",
    data_type="ticker",
    source_type="rest",
    input_data=rest_response
)

print(f"Bid: {normalized['bid_price']}")  # 43210.0
print(f"Bid size: {normalized['best_bid_size']}")  # 1.25 (from REST, fills WebSocket gap)
print(f"Exchange: {normalized['exchange']}")  # binance
print(f"Timestamp: {normalized['timestamp']}")  # 2024-01-31 04:30:00.123+00:00
```

### Check Mapping Coverage
```bash
sqlite3 data/specifications.db "SELECT * FROM vendor_coverage_view;"
```

**Result**: All 4 exchanges mapped with 82 field mappings (49 WebSocket + 33 REST).

### Create REST Mappings (Optional)
```bash
# Create REST endpoint mappings to fill WebSocket gaps
python3 src/scripts/create_rest_mappings_demo.py --dry-run  # Show what would be mapped
python3 src/scripts/create_rest_mappings_demo.py --create   # Create actual mappings
```

## Next Steps

1. **Explore SQL queries** - Check `sql/queries/` for pre-built analysis queries
2. **Add new vendors** - See README.md for instructions on adding Binance, Kraken, etc.
3. **Integrate with your app** - Use the JSON specification for code generation
4. **Schedule updates** - Set up cron jobs to regularly update specifications

## Troubleshooting

### Database locked error
```bash
# Close any open SQLite connections
# Or remove the database and reinitialize
rm data/specifications.db
python3 main.py init
```

### No products discovered
```bash
# Check internet connection
# Verify Coinbase API is accessible
curl https://api.exchange.coinbase.com/products
```

### Import errors
```bash
# Ensure you're in the project directory
cd coinbase_catalog_to_json

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Support

For more detailed documentation, see [README.md](README.md).

For issues, check the log file: `api_spec_generator.log`

Commit message:

Add comprehensive database context documentation
- Created data/DATABASE-CONTEXT.md with complete schema reference and usage examples
- Includes coverage analysis, gap information, and integration guides
- Updated README.md and QUICKSTART.md to reference new documentation
- Provides external projects with complete reference for using specifications.db
- Covers 82 field mappings, 2,694 products, and normalization engine integration

QUICKSTART.md, after:

# Quick Start Guide

Get up and running with the Vendor API Specification Generator in 5 minutes.

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/jsoprych/crypto-exchange-api-catalog.git
cd crypto-exchange-api-catalog

# Create and activate virtual environment (recommended)
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Initialize database
python3 main.py init
```

## Basic Usage

### 1. Discover Coinbase API

```bash
python3 main.py discover --vendor coinbase
```

**Expected output:**
```
Discovering Coinbase Exchange API...

✓ Discovery complete:
  - Products: 776
  - REST endpoints: 10
  - WebSocket channels: 5
  - Duration: 19.93s
  - Run ID: 1
```

### 2. Export to JSON (Python format)

```bash
python3 main.py export --vendor coinbase --format snake_case
```

**Output file:** `output/coinbase/coinbase_api_spec.json`

### 3. Export to JSON (Go format)

```bash
python3 main.py export --vendor coinbase --format camelCase --output coinbase_go.json
```

**Output file:** `coinbase_go.json`

## Query Examples

### Find all BTC trading pairs

```bash
python3 main.py query "SELECT symbol, base_currency, quote_currency FROM products WHERE base_currency = 'BTC'"
```

### Check discovery run history

```bash
python3 main.py query "SELECT * FROM discovery_runs"
```

### Find products with ticker feeds

```bash
python3 main.py query "
SELECT p.symbol, prf.feed_type 
FROM products p 
JOIN product_rest_feeds prf ON p.product_id = prf.product_id 
WHERE prf.feed_type = 'ticker' 
LIMIT 10
"
```

### Using pre-built SQL queries

```bash
# Vendor analysis
sqlite3 data/specifications.db < sql/queries/01_vendor_analysis.sql

# Endpoint discovery
sqlite3 data/specifications.db < sql/queries/02_endpoint_discovery.sql

# Product catalog
sqlite3 data/specifications.db < sql/queries/04_product_catalog.sql
```

## Understanding the Output

### JSON Structure

```json
{
  "spec_metadata": {
    "vendor": "coinbase",
    "base_url": "https://api.exchange.coinbase.com",
    "websocket_url": "wss://ws-feed.exchange.coinbase.com"
  },
  "rest_api": {
    "endpoints": [...]
  },
  "websocket_api": {
    "channels": [...]
  },
  "products": [
    {
      "symbol": "BTC-USD",
      "base_currency": "BTC",
      "quote_currency": "USD",
      "available_rest_feeds": [
        {
          "type": "ticker",
          "endpoint": "/products/{product_id}/ticker"
        },
        {
          "type": "candles",
          "endpoint": "/products/{product_id}/candles",
          "intervals": [60, 300, 900, 3600, 21600, 86400]
        }
      ],
      "available_ws_channels": ["ticker", "level2", "matches"]
    }
  ]
}
```

### Database Tables

- **vendors** - Exchange registry
- **discovery_runs** - Audit trail
- **rest_endpoints** - REST API endpoints
- **websocket_channels** - WebSocket channels
- **products** - Trading pairs
- **product_rest_feeds** - Product → REST feed mappings
- **product_ws_channels** - Product → WebSocket channel mappings

## Common Tasks

### Re-run discovery to detect changes

```bash
# Run discovery again
python3 main.py discover --vendor coinbase

# Check for changes
python3 main.py query "
SELECT change_type, detected_at 
FROM api_changes 
ORDER BY detected_at DESC 
LIMIT 10
"
```

### Export specific products

Since all products are in the database, you can query and export a subset:

```bash
# Query specific products
python3 main.py query "
SELECT symbol, base_currency, quote_currency 
FROM products 
WHERE base_currency IN ('BTC', 'ETH') 
AND quote_currency = 'USD'
"
```

### Check system health

```bash
# View latest discovery runs
python3 main.py query "SELECT * FROM v_latest_discovery_runs"

# Check product feed availability
python3 main.py query "SELECT * FROM v_product_feed_availability WHERE symbol = 'BTC-USD'"
```

## Normalizing Exchange Data (Phase 2)

The canonical field mapping system enables consistent data processing across exchanges:

### Initialize Canonical Data
```bash
python3 src/scripts/init_canonical_data.py
```

### Test Normalization
```bash
# Test all exchanges
python3 src/scripts/test_all_exchanges.py

# Test specific exchange
python3 src/scripts/test_normalization.py --vendor coinbase --data-type ticker
```

### Example: Normalize Coinbase Ticker (WebSocket)
```python
from src.normalization.normalization_engine import NormalizationEngine

engine = NormalizationEngine()
sample_data = {
    "type": "ticker",
    "sequence": 5928281082,
    "product_id": "BTC-USD",
    "price": "43210.50",
    "best_bid": "43210.00",
    "best_ask": "43211.00",
    "volume_24h": "1234.5678"
}

normalized = engine.normalize(
    vendor_name="coinbase",
    data_type="ticker",
    input_data=sample_data
)

print(f"Bid: {normalized['bid_price']}")  # 43210.0
print(f"Ask: {normalized['ask_price']}")  # 43211.0
print(f"Exchange: {normalized['exchange']}")  # coinbase (auto-added)
print(f"Timestamp: {normalized['timestamp']}")  # Derived if missing
```

### Example: Normalize Binance Ticker (REST Endpoint)
```python
from src.normalization.normalization_engine import NormalizationEngine

engine = NormalizationEngine()
# Sample REST API response from /api/v3/ticker/24hr
rest_response = {
    "symbol": "BTCUSDT",
    "bidPrice": "43210.00",
    "bidQty": "1.25000000",
    "askPrice": "43211.00",
    "askQty": "0.75000000",
    "lastPrice": "43210.50",
    "volume": "53245678.9",
    "highPrice": "43500.00",
    "lowPrice": "42000.00",
    "openPrice": "42500.00",
    "closeTime": 1706697000123
}

normalized = engine.normalize(
    vendor_name="binance",
    data_type="ticker",
    source_type="rest",
    input_data=rest_response
)

print(f"Bid: {normalized['bid_price']}")  # 43210.0
print(f"Bid size: {normalized['best_bid_size']}")  # 1.25 (from REST, fills WebSocket gap)
print(f"Exchange: {normalized['exchange']}")  # binance
print(f"Timestamp: {normalized['timestamp']}")  # 2024-01-31 04:30:00.123+00:00
```

### Check Mapping Coverage
```bash
sqlite3 data/specifications.db "SELECT * FROM vendor_coverage_view;"
```

**Result**: All 4 exchanges mapped with 82 field mappings (49 WebSocket + 33 REST).

### Create REST Mappings (Optional)
```bash
# Create REST endpoint mappings to fill WebSocket gaps
python3 src/scripts/create_rest_mappings_demo.py --dry-run  # Show what would be mapped
python3 src/scripts/create_rest_mappings_demo.py --create   # Create actual mappings
```

## Next Steps

1. **Explore SQL queries** - Check `sql/queries/` for pre-built analysis queries
2. **Add new vendors** - See README.md for instructions on adding Binance, Kraken, etc.
3. **Integrate with your app** - Use the JSON specification for code generation
4. **Schedule updates** - Set up cron jobs to regularly update specifications

## Troubleshooting

### Database locked error
```bash
# Close any open SQLite connections
# Or remove the database and reinitialize
rm data/specifications.db
python3 main.py init
```

### No products discovered
```bash
# Check internet connection
# Verify Coinbase API is accessible
curl https://api.exchange.coinbase.com/products
```

### Import errors
```bash
# Ensure you're in the project directory
cd coinbase_catalog_to_json

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Support

For more detailed documentation, see [README.md](README.md) and the [Database Context Guide](../data/DATABASE-CONTEXT.md) for comprehensive database schema and integration examples.

For issues, check the log file: `api_spec_generator.log`
